Powerful Licorice Elephant

Medium

# Nft position owner can’t disable an asset from ReserveAsCollateral.

## Summary
a position’s supply collateral address can be disabled/enabled from useAsCollateral by calling the function setUserUseReserveAsCollateral(contract Pool).Nft tokenid owner can’t independently disable/enable useAsCollateral by calling the function setUserUseReserveAsCollateral(contract Pool). The reason is nft tokenid’s position is created by NFTPositionManager address and tokenid. There is no implementation to disable/enable useAsCollateral from an asset in NFTPositionManager.So  setUserUseReserveAsCollateral must be implemented in NFTPositionManager.


## root cause
 there is no implementation to disable/enable useAsCollateral from an asset in NFTPositionManager.


## Vulnerability Detail
 1.  Let’s assume Alice mints a nft in  NFTPositionManager and the tokenid of the nft is 1.
  
2. Now Alice supplies two assets(assume asset1 and asset2) in the nft position(nft’s pool).Both asset1 and asset2 will be set as useAsCollateral.
 
3.  Now Alice wants to disable useAsCollateral from asset1. But there is no implementation to disable/enable useAsCollateral from an asset in NFTPositionManager.
 
4. Nft tokenid owner can’t independently disable/enable useAsCollateral by calling the function setUserUseReserveAsCollateral(contract Pool). The reason is nft tokenid’s position is created by NFTPositionManager address and tokeind. So  setUserUseReserveAsCollateral must be implemented in NFTPositionManager.

## Impact
there is no flexibility/choice to disable/enable useAsCollateral for nft tokenid owner
## Code Snippet
https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-06-new-scope/blob/main/zerolend-one/contracts/core/pool/Pool.sol#L175
## Tool used

Manual Review

## Recommendation
Implement setUserUseReserveAsCollateral in NFTPositionManager so that one can disable/enable useAsCollateral from an asset.




