Modern Mauve Badger

Medium

# User will self liquidate and take the bonus amount

### Summary

A user will be liquidated if their collateral is insufficient to cover the borrowed amount. However, there is no restriction preventing a user from liquidating themselves. The user facing liquidation can initiate self-liquidation, claim the bonus amount, and settle the required debt.


### Root Cause

No check to prevent the Self liquidation in [Liquidation Logic](https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-06-new-scope/blob/main/zerolend-one/contracts/core/pool/logic/LiquidationLogic.sol#L94-L197).


### Internal pre-conditions

The user position does not cover the debt.


### External pre-conditions

The collateral price falls below the liquidation threshold.


### Attack Path

1. Alice supplies 550 tokenA to the pool, while Bob supplies 750 tokenB to the same pool.
2. Alice borrows 100 tokenB from the pool.
3. After some time, the price of tokenA decreases, and Alice's collateral falls below the liquidation threshold.
4. Alice calls the `liquidate` function to liquidate her own position or front run other liquidator call.
5. The liquidation is successful, allowing Alice to pay off the required debt and receive the liquidation bonus along with the remaining collateral.


### Impact

The user may prefer to self-liquidate or front-run other liquidators to liquidate themselves and secure the liquidation bonus.


### PoC

```solidity
  function testLiquidationSimple1_Liquidate_SELF() external {
    _generateLiquidationCondition();
    (, uint256 totalDebtBase,,,,) = pool.getUserAccountData(alice, 0);
// alice tries to liquidate her self
    _mintAndApprove(alice, tokenB, mintAmountB, address(pool)); // bob 2000 tokenB

    vm.startPrank(alice);
    vm.expectEmit(true, true, true, false);
    emit PoolEventsLib.LiquidationCall(address(tokenA), address(tokenB), pos, 0, 0, alice);
    pool.liquidateSimple(address(tokenA), address(tokenB), pos, 10 ether);

    vm.stopPrank();

    (, uint256 totalDebtBaseNew,,,,) = pool.getUserAccountData(alice, 0);

    assertTrue(totalDebtBase > totalDebtBaseNew);
  }

```

run test with `forge test --mt testLiquidationSimple1_Liquidate_SELF`.


### Mitigation

Either prevent the liquidation bonus from being paid out in cases of self-liquidation or restrict users from self-liquidating.
